---
layout: post
title: "Journal"
date: 2025-05-31
category: read
excerpt: ""
---


# C

So, the day before yesterday, I got a call from a HR Manger and she offered me an assignment about .NET with dealine 4 days. 
The thing is that I didn't know .NET and had not tried it yet, but still I was accepting it as a challenge for me, a challenge learning C# and .NET in just 2 days, to complete the assignment.
For me, learning a new language isn't a big deal. But thankfully, the assignment has been submitted and i don't know if i will get
an offer as an internship or not but here I am, continuing my unfinished journey about networking programming.


## fork()


fork is a function in `#include <unistd.h>` use to create a new process. From `unistd.h`

```c
/* Clone the calling process, creating an exact copy.
   Return -1 for errors, 0 to the new process,
   and the process ID of the new process to the old process.  */
extern __pid_t fork (void) __THROWNL;
```

often in network programming, it is usually used by a server to handle multiple clients connecting to the server at the same time.
For each client, the server will start to establish a new resource for that client.

The code above mentions `__pid_t`, but what `pid` is? Well, `pid` stands for *Process ID*. 
For example, in an operating system (like Linux), when you run a program, the system will create a *process* for it, but to differentiate between programs,
the system will need to assign for each program an ID.


## SOCK\_DGRAM

There are differences between UDP and TCP, but here is the one:

```sh
ducchinh@archlinux ~/p/c/socket_programming> ./talker hello
Talker sent 5 bytes long to localhost
ducchinh@archlinux ~/p/c/socket_programming>
```

the server is not running but we can still send a package without a problem, that UDP, connectionless.

```c
// talker.c

memset(&hints, 0, sizeof hints);
hints.ai_family = AF_INET6; // Use IPv4
hints.ai_socktype = SOCK_DGRAM; // Use UDP
```

