---
layout: post
title: "Learning Golang"
date: 2025-06-27
category: read
excerpt: ""
---

# Started Golang and networking

Today, I started learning Golang because I'm learning the networking in C, but I want to explore more about Golang and heard that Golang
is a good language for networking.


## Golang

Go is an open source programming language supported by Google. From the Go documentation:

> Go is expressive, concise, clean, and efficient. Its concurrency mechanisms make it easy to write programs that get the most out of multicore and networked machines, while its novel type system enables flexible and modular program construction. Go compiles quickly to machine code yet has the convenience of garbage collection and the power of run-time reflection. It's a fast, statically typed, compiled language that feels like a dynamically typed, interpreted language.

### Compilers

#### gc

gc is the standard Go compiler, fast-compiling.


#### gccgo

gccgo is an alternative for Go compiler. Valuable when need to target less common platform


### Module

From Golang

> In a module, you collect one or more related packages for a discrete and useful set of functions


Init command:

```sh
    go mod init [module-path]
```

By default, or first init, `go mod init` will produce a file call `go.mod` contains just the name of the module and the version of go.
For example, I have `main.go` file that contains the following code:

```go
package main

import "fmt"
import "rsc.io/quote"


func greeting(name string) string {
	message := fmt.Sprintf("Greeting %v", name)
	return message
}

func main() {
	fmt.Println(quote.Hello())
	fmt.Println(quote.Opt())
	fmt.Println(quote.Glass())
	fmt.Println(quote.Go())
	fmt.Println(greeting("Go"))
}
```

then i run `go mod init`, it produces a file call `go.mod`:

```go
module example.com/greetings

go 1.24.3
```

with this message:

```sh
ducchinh@archlinux ~/p/g/hello-world> go mod init example.com/greetings
go: creating new go.mod: module example.com/greetings
go: to add module requirements and sums:
        go mod tidy
```


so what is this `go mod tidy`? I run this command and

```sh
ducchinh@archlinux ~/p/g/hello-world> go mod tidy
go: finding module for package rsc.io/quote
go: found rsc.io/quote in rsc.io/quote v1.5.2
```

Boomb, it scans my source code to see if i'm using any external dependencies, like this one in my main.go:

```go
import "rsc.io/quote"
```

after founding this, it modifies the `go.mod` file:

```go
module example.com/greetings

go 1.24.3

require rsc.io/quote v1.5.2

require (
	golang.org/x/text v0.0.0-20170915032832-14c0d48ead0c // indirect
	rsc.io/sampler v1.3.0 // indirect
)
```

so it adds any missing dependencies required by my code to `go.mod` file.

I'm talking about external module that someone has implemented it but how about our own module, well.

First, i will create two directories like so:

```

ducchinh@archlinux ~/programming> tree golang
golang
├── greetings/
└── hello/

2 directories, 0 files

```


Oh, i created two directories `greetings` and `hello`

inside `greetings` i start to crete my own module:

```
ducchinh@archlinux ~/p/g/greetings> go mod init example.com/greetings
```

and generate a file `greeting.go` but you can use any name

```go
package greetings
import "fmt"


func Hello(name string) string {
	return fmt.Sprintf("Hello %v", name);
}
```

then inside `hello` directory, where we will use that module:

```
ducchinh@archlinux ~/p/g/hello> go mod init example.com/hello
```

that will create `go.mod`

```go
module example.com/hello

go 1.24.3
```

Oh, i want to mention that the purpose of `go.mod` is to keep track all the dependencies that we will use in our code. 
From [go.dev](https://go.dev/doc/tutorial/create-module)

> The go mod init command creates a go.mod file to track your code's dependencies. So far, the file includes only the name of your module and the Go version your code supports. But as you add dependencies, the go.mod file will list the versions your code depends on. This keeps builds reproducible and gives you direct control over which module versions to use.


Next, i creat a hello.go

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"example.com/greetings"
)

func main() {
	msg := greetings.Hello("Go")
	fmt.Println(msg)
}
```

But how do we use our local package? we know that we can use external packages just type `go mod tidy`, it will scan our source file and then install
the dependencies, but how about local? See this:

```sh
ducchinh@archlinux ~/p/g/hello [1]> go mod edit -replace example.com/greetings=../greetings
```


well, we replace the current `example.com/greetings` in our code from:
```go
import (
	"fmt"

	"example.com/greetings"
)
```
 
with `../greetings` directory, we tell go that *hey, for module example.com/greetings, looks  for this directory ../greetings*.
and that's it, here is how it updated `go.mod`

```go
module example.com/hello

go 1.24.3

replace example.com/greetings => ../greetings

require example.com/greetings v0.0.0-00010101000000-000000000000
```

Pretty cool.


